RULE NO. 13: Instant Replay
Section I—Instant Replay Review Triggers

Instant replay will be triggered in the following situations:
A field goal made with no time remaining on the clock (0:00) at the end of any period. [NOTE: Instant replay will NOT be used to check a successful basket in subsection (1) above if the throw-in, free throw attempt of jump ball started with .2 or .1 on the game clock. The officials will judge the legality of the basket in these situations based on the guidelines as set forth in Comments on the Rules L.
A foul called with no time remaining on the clock (0:00) at the end of any period.
Officials are not reasonably certain whether a personal foul called at any time during a game met the criteria for a flagrant foul.
An Altercation occurs. (For purposes of this instant replay rule only, an Altercation shall mean a situation in which (i) two or more players are engaged in (a) a fight or (b) a hostile physical interaction that is not part of normal basketball play and that does not immediately resolve by itself or with the intervention of game officials or players, or (ii) a player, coach, trainer, or other team bench person commits a hostile act against another player, referee, coach, trainer, team bench person, or spectator (including, for example, through the use of a punch, elbow, kick, blow to the head, shove, or thrown object.)
A play concludes (i) with no time remaining on the clock (0:00) at the end of any period or (ii) at a point when the game officials believe that actual time may have expired in any period; and the officials are reasonably certain that the game clock malfunctioned during the play.
Officials are not reasonably certain at any time during a game whether (i) a successful field goal was scored correctly as a 2-point or 3-point field goal, or (ii) in the case of a called shooting foul, whether the player was attempting a 2-point or 3-point field goal; provided that the Replay Center Official did not trigger instant replay to review these matters as permitted by Section I-b(1)
Officials are not reasonably certain as to which team should be awarded possession after a ball becomes out-of-bounds or whether a called out-of-bounds in fact occurred during the last two minutes of the fourth period or last two minutes of any overtime period(s). [NOTE: Notwithstanding Section (I)(a)(7) above, Section II(g) below, and related provisions, the Official NBA Playing Rules have been modified for the 2021-22 NBA season (one-year trial basis) to (i) eliminate referee-initiated instant replay review of out-of-bounds violations during the last two minutes of the fourth period and the last two minutes of any overtime period; and (ii) extend the Coach’s Challenge (see Rule 14) so teams may trigger replay review of out-of-bounds violations throughout the entire game. Accordingly, a Coach’s Challenge is the only mechanism to trigger replay review of out-of-bounds violations at any point during the game.
Officials are not reasonably certain at any time during a game whether (i) a successful field goal was released prior to the expiration of the shot clock, provided that the Replay Center Official did not trigger instant replay to review this matter as permitted by Section I-b(2) below, or (ii) a called foul was committed prior to the expiration of the shot
Officials are not reasonably certain whether a personal foul called at any time during a game met the criteria for a clear-path-to-the-basket
Officials are not reasonably certain as to which player should attempt free throws on a called
Officials are not reasonably certain whether the ball touched the rim and thus whether the shot clock or game clock should be adjusted during the last two minutes of the fourth period or last two minutes of any overtime period(s).
Officials have determined that illegal contact has occurred on a block/charge foul but are not reasonably certain as to whether the defender was inside or out- side the restricted area during the last two minutes of the fourth period or last two minutes of any overtime period(s).
Officials are not reasonably certain whether a goaltending or basket interference violation was called correctly during the last two minutes of the fourth period or last two minutes of any overtime period(s).
Officials are not reasonably certain whether an off-ball foul occurred prior to offensive player beginning his shooting motion on a successful basket if the off-ball foul is committed by a defensive player, (b) a defensive foul is committed prior to the ball being released on a throw-in or (c) the ball being released on a successful field goal if the off-ball foul is a double foul or committed by an offensive player.
Officials are not reasonably certain whether a team had the correct number of players on the court while the ball is in play.
Instant replay will NOT be used to check a successful basket in 1 above if the throw-in, free throw attempt or jump ball started with .2 or .1 on the game The officials will judge the legality of the basket in these situations based on the guidelines as set forth in Comments on the Rules L.
Instant replay will be immediately triggered by the Replay Center Official in the following situations:
The Replay Center Official is not reasonably certain whether (i) a successful field goal was scored correctly as a 2-point or 3-point field goal during the first 46 minutes of regulation or first three minutes of any overtime period, or (ii) in the case of a called shooting foul at any time during a game, the Replay Center Official is not reasonably certain whether the player was attempting a 2-point or 3-point field goal.
NOTE: If the Replay Center Official did not trigger instant replay in accordance with Section I-b(1) above, the on-court game officials retain the right to independently trigger instant replay (See Section I-a(6)) within the time constraints set forth in Section II-f(1) below
The Replay Center Official is not reasonably certain whether a successful field goal was released prior to expiration of the shot clock during the first 46 minutes of regulation or first three minutes of any overtime period.
NOTE: If the Replay Center Official did not trigger instant replay in accordance with Section 1-b(2) above, the on-court game officials retain the right to independently trigger instant replay (See Section I-a(8)) within the time constraints set forth in Section II-h(1) below.

Section II—Reviewable Matters

If an instant replay review is triggered as described in Section I-a(1) above, the Replay Center Official would review the video to determine whether time on the game clock expired before the ball left the shooter’s hand. The Replay Center Official and on-court official(s) may also review the video to deter- mine only the following other matters:
If the shot was timely, whether the successful field goal was scored correctly as a 2-point or 3-point field goal.
If the shot was timely, whether the shooter committed a boundary line violation or the ball touched out-of-bounds prior to entering the basket. (For purposes of this review, the official would look only at the position of the shooter’s feet at the moment they last touched the floor immediately prior to (or, if applicable, during) the release of the shot.)
Whether the shot clock expired before the ball left the shooter’s hand.
Whether an 8-second backcourt violation occurred before the ball left the shooter’s hand.
Whether any unsportsmanlike acts or unnecessary contact occurred.
If an instant replay review is triggered as described in Section I-a(2) above, the Replay Center Official and official who called the foul would review the video to determine the following: (i) whether a called foul that is not committed on or by a player in the act of shooting occurred prior to the expiration of time on the game clock; or (ii) for a called foul that is committed on or by a player in the act of shooting: (a) whether the foul occurred prior to the expiration of time on the game clock; or (b) whether the shooter released the ball prior to the expiration of time on the game clock if the foul occurred after the expiration of time. The Replay Center Official and on-court official(s) may also review the video to deter- mine only the following other matters:
Whether the shooter fouled was attempting a 2-point or 3-point field
Whether a player fouled committed a boundary line violation prior to the foul or the ball touched out of bounds on a successful basket.
Whether the shot clock expired before the foul
Whether an 8-second backcourt violation occurred before the player was fouled.
Whether any unsportsmanlike acts or unnecessary contact occurred.
If an instant replay review is triggered as described in Section I-a(3) above, the Replay Center Official and on-court officials would review the video to determine only the following issues:
Whether the personal foul should stand or be ruled a flagrant foul penalty 1 or 2 or a technical foul.
Whether any other players committed unsportsmanlike acts or unnecessary con- tact immediately prior to and/or immediately following the calling of the foul.
If an instant replay review is triggered as described in Section I – a (4) above, the Replay Center Official and on-court officials would review the video to determine only the following issues:
The identity of all players, coaches, trainers, or team bench persons involved in the Altercation and the action immediately prior to and immediately following the altercation.
The level of involvement of each such player , coach, trainer, or team bench person.
The appropriate penalty to be assessed against each such player, coach, trainer, or team bench person.
If an instant replay review is triggered as described in Section I-a(5) above, the Replay Center Official and on-court official(s) would review the video to determine the fol- lowing issues:
The proper time (if any) on the game clock following the clock malfunction by determining how much time on the game clock actually expired.
For a successful field goal, whether the ball left the shooter’s hand prior to the expiration of actual time.
Whether a called foul that is not committed on or by a player in the act of shooting occurred prior to the expiration of actual time.
For a called foul that is committed on or by a player in the act of shooting:
whether the foul occurred prior to the expiration of actual time; or
whether the shooter released the ball prior to the expiration of actual time if the foul occurred after the expiration of actual time.
If the shot was timely, whether the successful field goal was scored correctly as a 2-point or 3-point field goal or, in the case of a shooting foul, whether the shooter fouled was attempting a 2-point or 3-point field goal.
If the shot was timely, whether the shooter committed a boundary line violation or the ball touched out-of-bounds prior to entering the basket or, in the case of a foul, whether the player fouled committed a boundary line violation. For purposes of this review, the Replay Center Official would look only at the position of the player’s feet at the moment they last touched the floor immediately prior to (or, if applicable, during) the release of the shot or the foul (as applicable).
Whether the shot clock expired before the ball left the shooter’s hand or the foul occurred.
Whether an 8-second backcourt violation occurred before the ball entered the frontcourt.
Whether any unsportsmanlike acts or unnecessary contact NOTE: If time is added to the game clock:
The team with possession of the ball when the horn or whistle sounds will retain possession on the sideline at the nearest spot.
If the ball is released on an unsuccessful field goal attempt or is loose when the horn or whistle sounds, the ball will be jumped at center circle between any two opponents in the game.
If the horn or whistle sounds while a successful field goal is in flight, the opposing team will inbound on the baseline as after any successful field goal.
If an instant replay review is triggered as described in Section I-a(6) above, the Replay Center Official and on-court official(s) would review the video to determine the following issues:
Whether the successful field goal was scored correctly as a 2-point or 3-point field Prior to the 2nd mandatory timeout in the 4th period, the review must take place at the next timeout or period break following the basket in question. If the next break is halftime, the review must take place prior to the officials leaving the court. Following the 2nd mandatory timeout in the 4th period and any overtime period, the review must take place at the next clock stoppage, including immediately upon a successful basket when the clock stops in the last two minutes. If a successful 2-point/3-point field goal is not reviewed in accordance with the foregoing timing rules, the play can no longer be reviewed once the ball is inbound and touched on the court, a personal foul is assessed or violation is whistled.
Whether the shooter fouled was attempting a 2-point or 3-point field goal. During the entire game, the review must take place prior to the shooter releasing the first free throw attempt.
If the shot was timely, whether the shooter committed a boundary line violation or the ball touched out-of-bounds prior to entering the basket or, in the case of a foul, whether the player fouled committed a boundary line violation. For purposes of this review, the Replay Center Official would look only at the position of the player’s feet at the moment they last touched the floor immediately prior to (or, if applicable, during) the release of the shot or the foul (as applicable).
Whether the shot clock expired before the ball left the shooter’s hand or the foul occurred.
Whether any unsportsmanlike acts or unnecessary contact occurred.
If an instant replay review is triggered as described in Section I-a(7) above, the Replay Center Official would review the video to determine which team should be awarded possession. The review must take place prior to the subsequent inbounding of the ball or, if applicable, jump ball. The Replay Center Official on-court official(s) may also review the video to determine only the following other matters:
Whether time on the game clock expired prior to the ball being out-of-bounds.
Whether the shot clock expired prior to the ball being out-of-bounds.
Whether an 8-second backcourt violation occurred prior to the ball being out-of- bounds.
How much time remains in the period and/or on the shot clock.
Whether any unsportsmanlike acts or unnecessary contact occurred.
If an instant replay review is triggered as described in Section I – a (8) above, the Replay Center Official and the official who called the foul, if applicable would review the video to determine the following issues:
Whether time on the shot clock expired before the ball left the shooter’s hand. Prior to the 2nd mandatory timeout in the 4th period, the review must take place at the next timeout or period break following the basket in question. If the next break is halftime, the review must take place prior to the officials leaving the court. Following the 2nd mandatory timeout in the 4th period and any overtime period, the review will take place at the next clock stoppage, including immediately upon a successful basket when the clock stops in the last two minutes. If a shot clock violation is not reviewed in accordance with the foregoing timing rules, it may not be reviewed thereafter.
Whether a called foul that is not committed on or by a player in the act of shooting occurred prior to the expiration of time on the shot clock.
For a called foul that is committed on or by a player in the act of shooting: whether the foul occurred prior to the expiration of time on the shot clock; or (ii) whether the shooter released the ball prior to the expiration of time on the shot clock if the foul occurred after the expiration of time on the shot clock (During the entire game, the review of a foul occurring as the shot clock expires must take place prior to the shooter releasing the first free throw attempt or prior to the subsequent inbounding of the ball.)
If the shot was timely, whether the successful field goal was scored correctly as a 2-point or 3-point field goal or, in the case of a shooting foul, whether the shooter fouled was attempting a 2-point or 3-point field goal.
If the shot was timely, whether the shooter committed a boundary line violation or the ball touched out of bounds prior to entering the basket or, in the case of a foul, whether the player fouled committed a boundary line violation. For purposes of this review, the Replay Center Official would look only at the position of the player’s feet at the moment they last touched the floor immediately prior to (or, if applicable, during) the release of the shot or the foul (as applicable).
Whether an 8-second backcourt violation occurred before the ball left the shooter’s hand or the player was fouled.
Whether any unsportsmanlike acts or unnecessary contact occurred.
If an instant replay review is triggered as described in Section I – a (9) above, the Replay Center Official and the official who called the foul would review the video to deter- mine the following issues:
Whether, when the foul was called, the ball and an offensive player were positioned between the tip-of-circle extended in the backcourt and the basket in the frontcourt, with no defender between the ball and the basket or no defender ahead of the player being fouled with the opportunity to position himself between the ball and the basket or the defender who committed the foul against the player with the ball was not ahead of him anytime in the frontcourt.
The offensive team had possession of the ball and the new play originated in the backcourt, including throw-ins.
The foul deprived the offensive team of an opportunity to score.
The foul was committed prior to the offensive player starting his shooting motion.
Whether any unsportsmanlike acts or unnecessary contact occurred.
If an instant replay review is triggered in Section I – a (10) above, the Replay Center Official and the official who called the foul would review the video to determine which player was The review must take place prior to the first free throw being released. The Officials would not review video to determine which player committed the foul in question. The Replay Center Official and on-court officials may review the video to determine only the following other matters:
Whether the shooter fouled was attempting a 2-point or 3-point field goal.
Whether the player fouled committed a boundary line violation prior to the foul. For purposes of this review, the official would look only at the position of the player’s feet at the moment they last touched the floor immediately prior to (or, if applicable, during) the foul.
Whether the shot clock expired before the foul occurred.
Whether an 8-second backcourt violation occurred before the player was fouled.
Whether any unsportsmanlike acts or unnecessary contact occurred.
If an instant replay review is triggered in Section I-a (11) above, the Replay Center Official would review the video to determine whether the ball touched the rim, and make any adjustments to the game clock, shot clock, score and possession that are appropriate in accordance with the following:
If play has stopped following the offensive team retaining possession (e.g., the offensive team has made a successful field goal, or a violation or foul has been called), the play must be reviewed immediately upon such stoppage of play and:
For a successful field goal, the Replay Center Official will time the play to determine whether the field goal was released prior to the expiration of 24 seconds. If the Replay Center Official determines that the ball was released before the shot clock expired, the points will count and the opposing team will inbound on the baseline as after any successful field goal. If the Replay Center Official determines that the ball was released after the shot clock should have expired, the points will not count and the opposing team will be awarded the ball at the free throw line extended.
For a called foul, the Replay Center Official and official who called the foul will time the play to determine whether the foul occurred prior to the expiration of the shot clock or, in the case of a called foul that is committed on a player in the act of shooting, whether the shooter released the ball prior to the expiration of the shot clock. If the Replay Center Official and official deter- mines that the foul occurred or the ball was released prior to the expiration of the shot clock, the called foul will be upheld. If the Replay Center Official determines that the foul occurred or the ball was released after the expiration of the shot clock, the called foul will be overturned and a shot clock violation assessed. (EXCEPTION: Flagrant fouls and unsportsmanlike acts and points scored therefrom will not be nullified.)
If the ball is caused to become out-of-bounds by the defensive team or a defensive violation is assessed, the Replay Center Official will time the play to determine how much time should be on the shot clock or if a shot clock violation should be assessed.
If play is continuous (i.e., if there is no stoppage in play following the offensive team retaining possession of the ball), the officials will stop play during the first pause in action prior to any subsequent change of possession. If the Replay Center Official determines following the review that the shot clock is correct (i.e., no adjustment is required), then play will resume from the point of interruption. If the Replay Center Official determines that the shot clock is incorrect, then the shot clock will be reset to the time the ball was possessed by the offensive team following the ball touching (or not touching) the rim, and the game clock will also be reset to reflect the change. The ball will be inbounded on the sideline nearest the spot where the ball was possessed.
If play is stopped while neither team is in possession of the ball and the Replay Center Official determines following the review that a shot clock violation has not occurred, then play will resume with a jump ball at center court between any two players in the The shot clock and game clock will be adjusted accordingly.
Whether any unsportsmanlike acts or unnecessary contact occurred.
If an instant replay review for a shot clock adjustment is not reviewed in accordance with the timing rules set forth above, it may not be reviewed at any point thereafter.
The Replay Center Official will have the final ruling on all other scenarios and clock adjustments.
If an instant replay review is triggered as described in Section I-a(12) above, the Replay Center Official and the official who called the foul would review the video to determine:
Whether the defender was inside or outside the restricted area.
Whether the defender was in a legal guarding position.
Whether any unsportsmanlike acts or unnecessary contact occurred.
If an instant replay review is triggered as described in Section I-a(13) above, the Replay Center Official would review the video in accordance with Rule 11 Section The Replay Center Official and on-court officials(s) may also review the video to determine only the following other matters:
If goaltending or basket interference was ruled prior to the ball touching the rim, whether the shooter committed a boundary line violation. For purposes of this review, the Replay Center Official would look only at the position of the shooter’s feet at the moment they last touched the floor immediately prior to (or, if applicable, during) the release of the shot and the flight of the ball.
If goaltending or basket interference was ruled prior to the ball touching the rim, whether an 8-second backcourt violation occurred before the ball left the shooter’s hand.
Whether any unsportsmanlike acts or unnecessary contact occurred.
If an instant replay review is triggered as described in Section I-a(14) above, the Replay Center Official and the official who called the foul would review the video to determine:
Whether the shot clock expired before the foul occurred.
Whether an 8-second backcourt violation occurred before the player was fouled.
Whether any unsportsmanlike acts or unnecessary contact occurred.
If an instant replay review is triggered as described in Section I-a(15) above, the Replay Center Official would review the video in accordance with Rule 12A—Section III. The Replay Center Official and on-court official(s) may also review the video to determine whether any unsportsmanlike acts or unnecessary contact

Section III—Replay Review Process

Replay reviews will be triggered by the on-court game officials in accordance with the rules set forth in Section II The Replay Center Official will determine the final outcome on all replays except Flagrant Fouls and Altercations, which will be decided by the on-court officials, with personnel in the Replay Center playing a supporting role. In all cases, the two game officials will inform both team benches that the play will be reviewed. For replay reviews to be determined by the Replay Center Official, the calling official, and the crew chief at his/her discretion, will go to the scorer’s table and put on the headset to receive the ruling from the Replay Center Official and the other on-court official(s) will prepare the players to return to play. If the ruling is to be made by the on-court officials, the crew chief and a second official will go to the scorer’s table and make the ruling with the assistance of the Replay Center Official. The third official will monitor the benches.
Replay reviews should be conducted within two minutes. Notwithstanding this general rule, discretion will be used to extend the review period as reasonably necessary under unusual circumstances, such as when the play could lead to an ejection (e.g., flagrant fouls/penalty 2), technical issues arise with the replay system, the outcome of the replay review requires multiple replay review angles or additional angles are imminent. In addition, replay reviews of Player Altercations should be concluded within whatever time is reason- ably necessary, even if that time period extends beyond two minutes.
If the replay system is not functioning properly, or not available, the officials will use the nearest courtside broadcast production TV monitor available.
The Replay Center Official will use the following to make his/her ruling in the order listed below regarding scoring, timing or fouls at the end of any period:
Game clock or shot clock on top of backboard
LED lights
Game clock on the facades of the balcony
Game clock on score boards hanging from the ceiling
Superimposed TV clocks
EXCEPTION: For clock malfunctions when clocks start early, late or freeze— the Replay Center Official will use the digital clock in the Replay Center to make the final ruling.
The officials will keep both teams on the court at the end of the second period if replay is being used to determine if a foul was called prior to expiration of the period or if there is any question whether the shooter committed a shot clock violation, 8-second violation or boundary line violation where time may be added to the game clock.
The officials will keep both teams on the court anytime replay is used at the end of the fourth period or overtime period.
